---
title: 0001 Flume
tags: [c++, elixir]
categories: devlog
---

In an effort to write more often, I have decided to maintain a devlog for the
various projects I work on. These posts are likely to be shorter, "stream of
conciousness" journal entries as opposed to my longer blog posts. I do not
intend to prescribe any goal to these entries outside of them serving as a
potential stepping stone to more consistent writing.

---

To kick the journal off, I will very briefly discuss the "Flume" project I have
just begun. The idea stemmed from an early iteration of [BoardWise](https://www.boardwise.gg/){:target="_blank"}
in which I created a fairly involved form for chess coaches to fill out. This
form had a number of input fields and the ability to save progress midway. Forms
are surprisingly difficult though. Some of the considerations that needed to be
made included:

- Validating finalized form fields
- Saving form fields before finalization (i.e. saving partially completed responses)
- Handling different input types (e.g. text, numbers, files, dates, etc.)
- Serializing data (both on save and on submit)
- Synchronizing the database schema with the expected form data

{% include info.html content="These problems do not include the issues I felt
our (at-the-time) dependency on Supabase introduced. In general, direct
user-to-database communication is not a paradigm I find all that compelling and
the need to think about RLS at every step was more trouble than it was worth." %}

Quite a bit can be written on each of the above points, but to distill down to
the point of this post, it seems to me that there exists a need for a service
capable of ingesting different types of data, running this data through a series
of transformers/validators/etc., and then sending this processed data to another
server via something like a webhook. In essence, something akin to a data
pipeline but at a *much* smaller scale. This general thought process was the
impetus behind [Flume](https://git.jrpotter.com/flume){:target="_blank"}.

As of now, very little has been done outside of more thinking around what
exactly a first iteration should be. The rough idea consists of a basic
interface for defining JavaScript/TypeScript functions capable of processing
arbitrary data, running these functions in [V8](https://v8.dev/docs){:target="_blank"}
isolates, and then sending successfully processed data to a pre-defined webhook.
This likely doesn't sound all that novel, but the actual nuances around data
processing are quite varied and I'm hoping there is a particular facet that
Flume can explore that hitherto hasn't been.

---

The primary user-facing server will be written in Elixir while the so-called
workers running the embedded V8 instances will be written in C++.
